.TH "xrdp.ini" "5" "0.9.0" "xrdp team" ""
.SH "NAME"
\fBxrdp.ini\fR \- Configuration file for \fBxrdp\fR(8)

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
This is the man page for \fBxrdp.ini\fR, \fBxrdp\fR(8) configuration file.
It is composed by a number of sections, each one composed by a section name, enclosed by square brackets, followed by a list of \fI<parameter>\fR=\fI<value>\fR lines.

\fBxrdp.ini\fR supports the following sections:

.TP
\fB[Globals]\fP \- sets some global configuration settings for \fBxrdp\fR(8).

.TP
\fB[Logging]\fP \- logging subsystem parameters

.TP
\fB[Channels]\fP \- channel subsystem parameters

.TP
\fB[Connection]\fP \-  contain the info on which services \fBxrdp\fR(8) can connect to.

.LP
All options and values (except for file names and paths) are case insensitive, and are described in detail below.

.SH "GLOBALS"
The options to be specified in the \fB[Globals]\fR section are the following:

.TP
\fBaddress\fP=\fIip address\fP
Specifies xrdp listening address. Default is 0.0.0.0 (all interfaces)

.TP
\fBautorun\fP=\fIsession_name\fP
Automatically run the connection specified by \fIsession_name\fP, which must match a section as described below.
By default a drop-down list with all available connections is shown.
A connection can also be chosen by the connecting client by setting the \fBLOGIN DOMAIN\fP to a valid \fIsession name\fP.

.TP
\fBbitmap_cache\fR=\fI[0|1]\fR
If set to \fB1\fR, \fBtrue\fR or \fByes\fR this option enables bitmap caching in \fBxrdp\fR(8).

.TP
\fBbitmap_compression\fR=\fI[0|1]\fR
If set to \fB1\fR, \fBtrue\fR or \fByes\fR this option enables bitmap compression in \fBxrdp\fR(8).

.TP
\fBbulk_compression\fP=\fI[0|1]\fP
If set to \fB1\fR, \fBtrue\fR or \fByes\fR this option enables compression of bulk data in \fBxrdp\fR(8).

.TP
\fBchannel_code\fP=\fI[0|1]\fP
If set to \fB0\fR, \fBfalse\fR or \fBno\fR this option disables all channels \fBxrdp\fR(8).
See section \fBCHANNELS\fP below for more fine grained options.

.TP
\fBcrypt_level\fP=\fIlow|medium|high|fips\fP
.\" <http://blogs.msdn.com/b/openspecification/archive/2011/12/08/encryption-negotiation-in-rdp-connection.aspx>
RDP connection are controlled by two encryption settings: \fIEncryption Level\fP and \fIEncryption Method\fP.
The only supported \fIEncryption Method\fP is \fB40BIT_ENCRYPTION\fP, \fB128BIT_ENCRYPTION\fP and \fB56BIT_ENCRYPTION\fP are currently not supported.
This option controls the \fIEncryption Level\fP:
.RS 8
.TP
.B low
All data sent from the client to the server is protected by encryption based on the maximum key strength supported by the client.
.I This is the only level that the traffic sent by the server to client is not encrypted.
.TP
.B medium
All data sent between the client and the server is protected by encryption based on the maximum key strength supported by the client.
.TP
.B high
All data sent between the client and server is protected by encryption based on the server's maximum key strength.
.TP
.B fips
All data sent between the client and server is protected using Federal Information Processing Standard 140-1 validated encryption methods.
.I This level is required for Windows clients (mstsc.exe) if the client's group policy enforces FIPS-compliance mode.
.RE

.TP
\fBfork\fP=\fI[0|1]\fP
If set to \fB1\fR, \fBtrue\fR or \fByes\fR for each incoming connection \fBxrdp\fR(8) forks a sub-process instead of using threads.

.TP
\fBhidelogwindow\fP=\fI[0|1]\fP
If set to \fB1\fP, \fBtrue\fP or \fByes\fP, \fBxrdp\fP will not show a window for log messages.

.TP
\fBmax_bpp\fP=\fI[8|15|16|24]\fP
Limit the color depth by specifying the maximum number of bits per pixel.

.TP
\fBport\fP=\fIport\fP
Specify TCP port to listen on for incoming connections.
The default for RDP is \fB3389\fP.

.TP
\fBtcp_keepalive\fP=\fI[yes|no]\fP
Regulate if the listening socket uses socket option \fBSO_KEEPALIVE\fP.
If set to \fB1\fP, \fBtrue\fP or \fByes\fP and the network connection disappears without closing messages, the connection will be closed.

.TP
\fBtcp_nodelay\fP=\fI[yes|no]\fP
Regulate if the listening socket uses socket option \fBTCP_NODELAY\fP.
If set to \fB1\fP, \fBtrue\fP or \fByes\fP, no buffering will be performed in the TCP stack.

.TP
\fBdisableSSLv3\fP=\fI[yes|no]\fP
If set to \fB1\fP, \fBtrue\fP or \fByes\fP, \fBxrdp\fP will not accept SSLv3 connections.

.TP
\fBtls_ciphers\fP=\fIcipher_suite\fP
Specifies TLS cipher suite.  The format of this parameter is equivalent to which \fBopenssl\fP(1) ciphers subcommand accepts.

(ex. $ openssl ciphers 'HIGH:!ADH:!SHA1')

.TP
\fBblack\fP=\fI000000\fP
.TP
\fBgrey\fP=\fIc0c0c0\fP
.TP
\fBdark_grey\fP=\fI808080\fP
.TP
\fBblue\fP=\fI0000ff\fP
.TP
\fBdark_blue\fP=\fI00007f\fP
.TP
\fBwhite\fP=\fIffffff\fP
.TP
\fBred\fP=\fIff0000\fP
.TP
\fBgreen\fP=\fI00ff00\fP
.TP
\fBbackground\fP=\fI000000\fP
These options override the colors used internally by \fBxrdp\fP(8) to draw the login and log windows.
Colors are defined using a hexadecimal (hex) notation for the combination of Red, Green, and Blue color values (RGB).
The lowest value that can be given to one of the light sources is 0 (hex 00).
The highest value is 255 (hex FF).

.SH "LOGGING"
The following parameters can be used in the \fB[logging]\fR section:

.TP
\fBLogFile\fR=\fI${SESMAN_LOG_DIR}/sesman.log\fR
This options contains the path to logfile. It can be either absolute or relative, and the default is \fI${SESMAN_LOG_DIR}/sesman.log\fR

.TP
\fBLogLevel\fR=\fIlevel\fR
This option can have one of the following values:

\fBCORE\fR or \fB0\fR \- Log only core messages. these messages are _always_ logged, regardless the logging level selected.

\fBERROR\fR or \fB1\fR \- Log only error messages

\fBWARNING\fR, \fBWARN\fR or \fB2\fR \- Logs warnings and error messages

\fBINFO\fR or \fB3\fR \- Logs errors, warnings and informational messages

\fBDEBUG\fR or \fB4\fR \- Log everything. If \fBsesman\fR is compiled in debug mode, this options will output many more low\-level message, useful for developers

.TP
\fBEnableSyslog\fR=\fI[0|1]\fR
If set to \fB1\fR, \fBtrue\fR or \fByes\fR this option enables logging to syslog. Otherwise syslog is disabled.

.TP
\fBSyslogLevel\fR=\fIlevel\fR
This option sets the logging level for syslog. It can have the same values of \fBLogLevel\fR. If \fBSyslogLevel\fR is greater than \fBLogLevel\fR, its value is lowered to that of \fBLogLevel\fR.

.SH "CHANNELS"
The Remote Desktop Protocol supports several channels, which are used to transfer additional data like sound, clipboard data and others.
Channel names not listed here will be blocked by \fBxrdp\fP.
Not all channels are supported in all cases, so setting a value to \fItrue\fP is a prerequisite, but does not force its use.
.br
Channels can also be enabled or disabled on a per connection basis by prefixing each setting with \fBchannel.\fP in the channel section.

.TP
\fBrdpdr\fP=\fI[0|1]\fP
If set to \fB1\fR, \fBtrue\fR or \fByes\fR using the RDP channel for device redirection is allowed.

.TP
\fBrdpsnd\fP=\fI[0|1]\fP
If set to \fB1\fR, \fBtrue\fR or \fByes\fR using the RDP channel for sound is allowed.

.TP
\fBdrdynvc\fP=\fI[0|1]\fP
If set to \fB1\fR, \fBtrue\fR or \fByes\fR using the RDP channel to initiate additional dynamic virtual channels is allowed.

.TP
\fBcliprdr\fP=\fI[0|1]\fP
If set to \fB1\fR, \fBtrue\fR or \fByes\fR using the RDP channel for clipboard redirection is allowed.

.TP
\fBrail\fP=\fI[0|1]\fP
If set to \fB1\fR, \fBtrue\fR or \fByes\fR using the RDP channel for remote applications integrated locally (RAIL) is allowed.

.TP
\fBxrdpvr\fP=\fI[0|1]\fP
If set to \fB1\fR, \fBtrue\fR or \fByes\fR using the RDP channel for XRDP Video streaming is allowed.

.SH "CONNECTIONS"
A connection section is made of a section name, enclosed in square brackets, and the following entries:

.TP
\fBname\fR=\fI<session name>\fR
The name displayed in \fBxrdp\fR(8) login window's combo box.

.TP
\fBlib\fR=\fI../vnc/libvnc.so\fR
Sets the library to be used with this connection.

.TP
\fBusername\fR=\fI<username>\fR|\fIask\fR
Specifies the username used for authenticating in the connection.
If set to \fIask\fR, user name should be provided in the login window.

.TP
\fBpassword\fR=\fI<password>\fR|\fIask\fR
Specifies the password used for authenticating in the connection.
If set to \fIask\fR, password should be provided in the login window.

.TP
\fBip\fR=\fI127.0.0.1\fR
Specifies the ip address of the host to connect to.

.TP
\fBport\fR=\fI<number>\fR|\fI\-1\fR
Specifies the port number to connect to. If set to \fI\-1\fR, the default port for the specified library is used.

.TP
\fBcode\fR=\fI<number>\fR|\fI\-1\fR
Specifies the session type, the default, \fI\0\fR, is Xvnc, \fI\10\fR, is X11rdp, and \fI\20\fR, uses Xorg driver mode.

.SH "EXAMPLES"
This is an example \fBxrdp.ini\fR:

.nf
[Globals]
bitmap_cache=yes
bitmap_compression=yes

[vnc1]
name=sesman
lib=../vnc/libvnc.so
username=ask
password=ask
ip=127.0.0.1
port=\-1
.fi

.SH "FILES"
${XRDP_CFG_DIR}/xrdp.ini

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR xrdp (8),
.BR sesman (8),
.BR sesrun (8),
.BR sesman.ini (5)

for more info on \fBxrdp\fR see http://www.xrdp.org/
